Hey and welcome back to this lesson where we're going to take a look at adding a limit on how many levels
are in our game.
And then we're going to move onto randomizing the code that the player has to guess.
So we have our main function.
We declare our variable LevelDifficulty and initialize it with the value of one when the program starts.
And then we have our while loop that has its condition hardcoded as true.
I'm going to add a blank line just above the while loop just to improve our code readability.
And I also want to be more consistent with my IF statements.
And while loops I have a space before the condition for my if statement but I don't have a space before
the condition in my while loop.
So I'm going to add a space here just before the condition just so I can be consistent with the rest
of the code in my file.
Now remember the compiler ignores whitespace so it doesn't really matter that there's a space here.
But we want to stick with writing our code one way.
We want to be consistent.
Let's also add a comment on the end of this line here.
Our while loop is going to loop the game until all levels are completed.
And your challenge right now is to help us get started here.
I want you to declare any variable that we would use for storing the maximum difficulty or the maximum
level your game will have.
So you can name this either MaxLevel or MaxDifficulty just something that describes what is going
to be used for.
And then I want you to make it a constant by declaring it with the keyword const and initialize it with
the amount of levels you want in your game.
And I want you to make sure that it has scope within our main function.
Try declaring it above our while loop
okay.
So I've declared an int that is constant and I've named it MaxDifficulty.
I've also initialized it with the value of five.
I'm not going to have more than 5 difficulty levels in my game.
So our while loop is hardcoded as true.
But let's take a look at how we can create a condition that takes into account our difficulty variables
our LevelDifficulty value should never become larger than our MaxDifficulty value.
So the condition of our while loop should check to see if the value of LevelDifficulty is less or equal
to MaxDifficulty.
Now how can we do this.
Well we can make use of the comparison operators.
We already used equal to == when we check to see if the code product and sum is equal to the guest product
and sum.
And as you can see there's different comparison operators here that we can make use of.
So to check to see if the value of LevelDifficulty is less than or equal to MaxDifficulty we should
make use of the less than or equal to <= comparison operator.
So let's change the condition of our while loop from true to LevelDifficulty <= MaxDifficulty
so if LevelDifficulty is below or equal to 5 my while loop will continue executing this
code block but as soon as the condition is not met.
Meaning when the level difficulty goes above 5 the while loop would end and the rest of the code of our program
will execute which is just the return statement for our main function here.
So when all levels are completed the program will exit.
So in C++ we can create conditions for while loops and if statements that compare values by using comparison
operators also now let's save our work let's compile our code and let's run our program.
So we have to enter the correct code to complete the level and move on to the next difficulty level in my
game.
If the player enters the wrong code you lose gets printed to the terminal and we have to retry.
And if the player enters the correct code we can see that you win gets printed to the terminal and the
level difficulty increases and the maximum difficulty level is set to 5.
So once I get to level 5 and enter the correct code you win gets printed to the terminal and the program
exits.
So we print our win and lose messages from our play game function where we return true or false from
our if else statements here.
Now I want you to update the strings we print so they reflect completing the level and moving onto the
next level.
If the player enters the correct code and we also want to update the string where we return false in
our play game function to reflect retrying the level if the player enters the wrong code then we want
to have a final message printed to the terminal that congratulates the player on winning the game before
the program exits so before the return statement in the main function print a string that congratulates
the player on completing your game.
And again remember to head over to our community forum if you haven't done so already to post the results
of your work so far in this course it'll be great to see how you've tied all of this in the theme of
your game and maybe you can get a few ideas from other students here too if you get stuck.
So pause here to fix up your strings and then when you're ready we can continue
Okay so I've updated the strings in my play game function.
They get printed.
If the player completes or fails to level then at the end of my main function I prints my game winning
message.
Awesome.
So the theme of my tripleX game is about a secret agent breaking into server rooms to extract some
files.
So as a player if I enter the incorrect code we get a message that says you entered the wrong code.
Careful agent.
Try again.
So as a player I'm encouraged to retry the level when I completely level by entering the correct answer.
We get a message that says well done agent you extracted the file.
Keep going and it moves on to the next level.
But now if I go ahead and complete every single level we get a message that says great work Agent you
got all the files.
Now get out of there.
So that's my game winning message.
So I hope you updated your strings to reflect the gameplay while incorporating the theme of your own
game.
But now we want to work on the missing ingredient for our game which is randomized in the code that
the player has to guess instead of hard coding codeA codeB and codeC we want our program to generate
some numbers for us that the player has to guess.
So instead of initializing these variables with a value that we've chosen we're going to initialize
them by calling a function that is named rand()
This function simply returns a random number so let's do this now.
Let's initialize our variables here by calling rand() to do this for code.
A will do the same for codeB and we'll do the same for codeC
Now let's save our work.
Let's compile our code and let's see what happens when we run our program now.
Wow okay.
So when we do this we're getting some pretty crazy numbers coming out here.
So why is this happening.
Well this is because the rand function returns a random number anywhere between zero and a value that
is guaranteed to be at least thirty two thousand seven hundred and sixty seven.
So there's a huge range of numbers here that we are working with.
So while we are getting some random numbers now we can see that we can't just work with random numbers
recklessly.
It will make our game impossible to play and remember we have our level difficulty.
We want our game to start off easier and then get harder as we keep playing.
So we're going to want to do some play tuning to get a difficulty of our game right.
We want to have control over the range of the random numbers that are generated.
So we need to figure out how we're going to approach this.
Then our triplex game is pretty much there.
This is really the last remaining step for our game so well done for making it this far into the section
we're nearly there and then we'll be switching over to Unreal Engine 4.
So before moving into the next lesson.
Make sure to head over to our community forum and post the progress you've made so far in the course.
And then when you're ready we'll be working with these random numbers in the next lesson.